Introduction:

Hello! Thank you for taking the time to grade my final project. There have been a lot of ups and downs while working on this,
so I hope you enjoy the final result as much as I have for the past few weeks.

Overview:

This is a recreation of one of my favorite games as a child, Age of Empires II. Age of Empires 2 is a strategy game set in a medieval setting
where two players, each representing one historical country (in this case the Song Dynasty of China and the Byzantine Empire) compete against
each other to try and take down each other’s base. This is accomplished by managing an economy, raising an army, and uses tactics and strategy
to outplay your opponent(s). More specifically, in order to win in this game you need to either successfully take down the city that each country
starts off with or have the other player voluntarily surrender when they believe that victory is no longer possible. You accomplish this by
attacking the other side's defenses and other units, while using your villagers to build farms and other key buildings that improve your economy
and allow you to produce more units. This is a game against two human players. It is a turn-based hotseat game, meaning that you and another player
take your turn on the same computer.

Design Choices:

At the core of the game, I designed it so that there is a map board, a 2D array of Tiles that hold all of the units, buildings, and biomes, and a set
of buttons on the right that allow the player to choose specific decisions, such as building a Stable over building a Tower, that would not be done easily
with only clicking on the board. As a result, some decisions are made on the map board, some are made on the button board, and some are a combination of both.
Moving units around is solely done on the map board, surrendering and quitting the game are done on the button board, and recruiting units and constructing
buildings and attacking are all done via a mix of the map board and the button board.

In order to create the map, I decided to have each square resemble a Tile, which is composed of either a unit or building (from now on refered to as a Controllable)
and a Biome. The Biome is the terrain in the background, and things such as movement speed and the success of attacks are all dependent on the terrain. Every Tile has
an instantiated Biome. However, not all Tiles have a Controllable.

Movement in this game is accomplished with a recursive function that shows the maximum amount of tiles that unit can move on their given turn. This means that the unit
will always move optimally to any of the tiles that are chosen for it to move to. The actual process of moving units around is acheived by creating a replica of the unit,
assigning that unit to the tile, removing the old unit from the previous tile, and updating the changes graphically. The method resetToNeutral() is used after any movement
or action to reset all of the highlighted tiles so that the board is clean again.

Attacking and counterattacking are all influenced by a variety of factors. Any controllables without defense will immediately lose morale and disband. For more sturdy
controllables, a fight breaks out between the selected attacking unit and the defending unit. The success of the attacking unit depends on a variety of factors,
including the current morale of the attacking unit, the Biome that the defending unit is on, and what country the attacking unit is from (for instance, Castles have
a better attack under the Byzantine Empire). The defending unit, assuming it didn't disband from the previous attack, now has an opportunity to counterattack on the same
turn if they are in range of the attacking unit, although the attack is only half as strong as the inital attacking controllable's attack.

Known Bugs:

There are a few bugs that still can cause issues with the game. One bug is that the game has difficulty removing the event filters that are added on
the tiles. This means that, since new event filters are added as the game progresses, the amount of filters grows exponentially and can make the game
hard to run near the end of the game. Another problem is with the building mechanic: building, for instance, a Villager built by a City should have
that Villager appear on the player's choice of tile. However, it appears on the same tile as the City itself.

Hours Spent: 35